.. _faq-label:

Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

How does the module command work?

   We know that the child program inherits the  parents' environment
   but not the other way around. So it is very surprising that a
   command can change the current shell's environment. The trick here
   is that the module command is a two part process.  The module shell
   function in bash is::

        $ type module
        module() { eval $($LMOD_CMD bash "$@") }

   Where $LMOD_CMD points to your lmod command (say
   /apps/lmod/lmod/libexec/lmod).  So if you have a module file
   (foo/1.0) that contains::

       setenv("FOO", "BAR")

   then "$LMOD_CMD bash load foo/1.0" the following string written to stdout::

       export FOO=BAR
       ...

   The eval command read that output from stdout and changes the
   current shell's environment. Any text written to stderr bypasses
   the eval and written to the terminal.

What are the environment variables _ModuleTable001_, _ModuleTable002_,
etc doing it in the environment?

    The module command remembers its state in the environment through
    these variables.  The way Lmod does it is through a Lua table called
    ModuleTable::

       ModuleTable = {
          mT = {
            git = { ... }
          }
       }

    This table contains quotes and commas and must be store in
    environment.  To prevent problems the various shells, the table is
    encoded into base64 and split into blocks of 256 characters.
    These variables are decoded at the start of Lmod.  You can see what
    the module table contains with::

        $ module --mt

How does one debug a modulefile?

    There are two methods.  Method 1: If you are writing a Lua modulefile then
    you can write messages to stderr with and run the module command normally::

        local a = "text"
        io.stderr:write("Message ",a,"\n")

    Method 2: Take the output directly from Lmod.  You can put print()
    statements in your modulefile and do::

        $ $LMOD_CMD bash load *modulefile*

Why doesn't  % ``module avail |& grep ucc``  work under tcsh and works under bash?

    It is a bug in the way tcsh handles evals. This works::

       % (module avail) |& grep ucc

    However, in all shells it is better to use::

       % module avail ucc

    instead as this will only output modules that have "ucc" in
    their name.


Why does Lmod require a static location of lua? Why shouldn't a site
allow Lmod to use the lua found in the path?

    The short answer is that it is possible but for general use it is
    not a good idea. If you change the first line of the lmod script
    to be::

       "#!/usr/bin/env lua"

    and all the other Lmod executable scripts to do the same then all
    the scripts would use the lua found in the user's $PATH. There
    are other things that would have to change as well. Lmod
    carefully sets two env. vars: LUA_PATH and LUA_CPATH to be
    compatible with the Lua that was used to install lmod.

    So why does Lmod go to this much trouble? Why doesn't Lmod just
    use the lua found in the path and not set LUA_PATH and LUA_CPATH.
    Earlier version of Lmod did not. The answer is users.
    Lmod has to protect itself from every user out there. What if a user
    installs their own Lua? What if your system install of Lua is
    version 5.1 but your user wants to install the latest version of Lua.
    The libraries that Lmod depends on change with version. What if a
    user installs their own version lua but doesn't install the
    required libraries for Lmod to work (lua-posix, lfs) or they
    install their own library called lfs but it does something
    completely different. Lmod would fail with very strange errors.

    To sum up. Lmod is very careful to use the Lua that was used to
    install it and the necessary libraries. Lmod is also very careful
    to set LUA_PATH and LUA_CPATH internally so that user changes to
    those env. variables don't affect how Lmod runs.

Can I disable the pager output?

   Yes, you can.  Just set the environment variable ``LMOD_PAGER`` to
   **none**.

Why are messages printed to standard error and not standard out?

    The module command is an alias under tcsh and a shell routine under
    all other shells. There is an lmod command which writes out commands
    such as export FOO="bar and baz" and messages are written to standard
    error. The text written to standard out is evaluated so that the text
    strings make changes to the current environment. See next question
    for a different way to handle Lmod messages.


Can I force the output of list, avail and spider to go to stdout
instead of stderr?

   Bash and Zsh user can set the environment variable
   ``LMOD_REDIRECT`` to **yes**.  Sites can configure Lmod to work
   this way by default.  However, no matter how Lmod is set-up,
   this will not work with tcsh/csh due to limitations of
   this shell.

How can I use grep easily with the module command?

   If your site doesn't send the output of stdout, you can still use
   this trick when you need to grep the output of module command.
   Here are some examples::

      $ module -t --redirect avail       | grep foo
      $ module --raw --redirect show foo | grep bar
      $ module -t --redirect spider      | grep baz

Can I ignore the spider cache files when doing ``module avail``?

   Yes you can::

      $ module --ignore_cache avail

   or you can set::

      $ export LMOD_IGNORE_CACHE=1

   to make Lmod ignore caches as long as the variable is set.

I have created a module and "module avail" can't find it. What do I
do?

   Assuming that the modulefile is in MODULEPATH then you have an
   out-of-date cache.  Try running::

      $ module --ignore_cache avail

   If this does find it then you might have an old personal spider cache.
   To clear it do::

      $ rm -rf ~/.cache/lmod

   If "module avail" doesn't find it now, then the system spider cache
   is out-of-date.  Please ask your system administrator to update the
   cache.  If you are the system administrator then please read
   :ref:`system-spider-cache-label` and :ref:`user-spider-cache-label`

Why doesn't the module command work in shell scripts?

 It will if the following steps are taken. First the script must be a
 bash script and not a shell script, so start the script with
 ``#!/bin/bash``. The second is that the environment variable BASH_ENV
 must point to a file which defines the module command. The simplest
 way is having ``BASH_ENV`` point to ``/opt/apps/lmod/lmod/init/bash`` or
 wherever this file is located on your system. This is done by the
 standard install.  Finally Lmod exports the module command for Bash
 shell users.

How do I use the initializing shell script that comes with this application with Lmod?

  New in Lmod 8.6+, a modulefile can contain **source_sh** ("shell",
  "shell_script arg1 arg2 ...") to source a shell script by
  automatically converting it into module commands. Sites can use
  $LMOD_DIR/sh_to_modulefile to convert the script once.  See
  :ref:`sh_to_modulefile-label` for details.

Why is the output of ``module avail`` not filling the width of the terminal?

  If the output of ``module avail`` is 80 characters wide, then Lmod
  can't find the width of the terminal and instead uses the default
  size (80). If you do ``module --config``, you'll see a line:

      Active lua-term                true

  If it says **false** instead then lua-term is not installed.  One
  way this happens is to build Lmod on one computer system that has a
  system lua-term installed and the package on another where lua-term
  isn't installed on the system.


Why isn't the module defined when using the **screen** program?

  The screen program starts a non-login interactive shell.  The Bash
  shell startup doesn't start sourcing /etc/profile and therefore the
  ``/etc/profile.d/*.sh`` scripts for non-login interactive shells.  You
  can patch bash and fix ``/etc/bashrc`` (see :ref:`issues-with-bash`
  for a solution) or  you can fix your ``~/.bashrc`` to source
  ``/etc/profile.d/*.sh``

  You may be better off using **tmux** instead. It starts a login shell.

Why does ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH`` get cleared when using the **screen** program?

  The screen program is a guid program.  That means it runs as the group
  of the program and not the group associated with the user.  For
  security reason all of these kinds of program clear
  ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH``.  This unsetting of ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH`` is done
  by the Unix operating system and not Lmod.

  You may be better off using **tmux** instead. It is a regular
  program.

How can you write TCL files that can be safely used with both Lmod
and Tmod?

  For example the hide-version command only works Lmod and could be
  found in ~/.modulerc.  This could be read by both Tmod and Lmod.
  You can prevent Tmod from executing Lmod only code in the following way::

    #%Module
    if { [info exists ::env(LMOD_VERSION_MAJOR)] } {
       hide-version CUDA/8.8.8
    }

  Lmod defines the environment variable LMOD_VERSION_MAJOR during its
  execution.  This trick can also be used in a TCL modulefile to set
  the family function::

    #%Module
    ...
    if { [info exists ::env(LMOD_VERSION_MAJOR)] } {
       family compiler
    }

  As of Lmod 8.4.8+ you can also use the TCL global variable ModuleTool::

    #%Module
    ...
    if ( [ info exists ::ModuleTool ] && $::ModuleTool == "Lmod" } {
       family compiler
    }

How can I get the shell functions created by modules in bash shell
scripts such as job submission scripts?

   First, please make sure that shell functions and alias works
   correctly in bash interactive sub-shells.  If they don't then your
   site is not set up correctly.

   Once that works then change the first line of the shell script to
   be:

       #!/bin/bash -l

   Note that is a minus ell not minus one. This will cause the startup
   scripts to be sourced before the first executable statement in the
   script.

Why do modules sometimes get loaded when I execute ``module use <path>``?

   A main principal is that when $MODULEPATH changes, Lmod checks all
   the currently loaded modules. If any of those modules would not
   have been chosen then each is swapped for the new choice.

How to use module commands inside a Makefile?

   A user might wish to use module commands inside a Makefile.  Here is a
   generic way that would work with both Tmod and Lmod.  Both Lmod and
   Tmod define MODULESHOME to point to the top of the module install
   directory and both tools use the same initialization method to
   define the module command.

   Here is an example Makefile that shows a user listing their currently
   loaded modules::


      module_list:
             source $$MODULESHOME/init/bash; module list

What to do if new modules are missing when doing ``module avail``?

   If your site adds a new modulefile to the site's $MODULEPATH but
   are unable to see it with ``module avail``?

   It is likely that your site is having an spider cache issue.  If
   you see different results from the following commands then that is
   the problem::

      $ module --ignore_cache avail
      $ module                avail

   If you see a difference between the above two commands, delete (if
   it exists) the user's spider cache::

      $ rm -rf ~/.cache/lmod ~/.lmod.d/__cache__

   and try again.  If that still leads to a difference then there is a
   out-of-date system spider cache.  Please see
   :ref:`system-spider-cache-label` on how to set up and update a
   system spider cache.  This issue can happen with a user's personal
   spider cache.  Please see :ref:`user-spider-cache-label` for more
   details.

How to edit a modulefile?

   Lmod does not provide a way to directly edit modulefiles.
   Typically modulefiles are owned by the system so cannot be edited
   by users.  However, Lmod does provide a convenient way to locate
   modules which could be used for a bash/zsh shell function::

       function edit_modulefile () {
          $EDITOR $(module --redirect --location $1)
       }


If my startup shell is bash or tcsh and I start zsh, why do I get a
message that is like: "/etc/zsh/zshrc:48: compinit: function definition file not found"

   Lmod supports both zsh and ksh. Both these shells use shell
   variable FPATH but in very different ways.  The issue is that some
   bash or tcsh users run ksh scripts and need access to the module
   command. In the K-shell, the environment variable FPATH is exported
   and is the path to where the module shell function is found.
   Z-shell also uses FPATH to point to tool like compinit and others.
   By exporting FPATH, Z-shell does not change the value of FPATH
   which means that the zsh user can not find all the functions that
   make it work.

   The solution is to add "unset FPATH" in your startup files before
   "exec zsh".

Why doesn't setting CC in compiler and mpi modulefiles always work
reliably in a software hierarchy?

   When Lmod sees changes to $MODULEPATH it immediately checks to
   see whether all the currently loaded modules should still be
   loaded.  This means that setting CC with a pushenv() before
   modifying $MODULEPATH is unsafe.  The correct way to modify
   $MODULEPATH is in the beginning of the modulefile.  So for the gcc
   modulefile you might have::

       prepend_path("MODULEPATH","...")
       pushenv("CC","gcc")

   and not the other way around.

How does one handle backslashed characters (aka escaped characters) in an environment variable?

   Lua not Lmod is particular about \\<char>.  In other words, you
   can't backslash any character you want.  Just combinations like \\t
   and \\n.  To put in a backslash, you have to quote it with another
   backslash::

       % cat setPrompt/1.0.lua

       setenv("MY_PS1", "[\\u@\\h \\W]\\$ ")

       % module load setPrompt; echo "MY_PS1: \"$MY_PS1\""
       MY_PS1: "[\u@\h \W]\$ "

Why is using os.getenv() directly in the functions setenv(),
prepend_path() or append_path() a bad idea?

   The following modulefile works correctly on load and will produce a
   warning when unloaded::

        setenv("TESTDIR", os.getenv("HOME") .. "/test")
        prepend_path("TESTPATH", os.getenv("TESTDIR"))

   Why?

   Whenever Lmod evaluates a modulefile, this includes both loads and unloads, it
   evaluates all the commands in a subshell.  The **setenv()**
   statement on unload is unsetting the env. var.  **TESTDIR** in the
   subshell. Therefore the **prepend_path()** will fail because
   **prepend_path("TESTPATH", nil)** is an illegal command.

   The modulefile can be written safely like this::

        local testdir = os.getenv("HOME") .. "/test"
        setenv("TESTDIR", testdir)
        prepend_path("TESTPATH", testdir)

Why don't collections work on HPE/Cray systems?

   Currently, program environments on login nodes are different from
   the ones on compute nodes.  Collections require that the
   modulefiles have the same name (versions could be different but not
   the name).  When a collection is *restored*, it purges **ALL**
   modules and loads all the modules listed in the collection.  Note
   that the module load() inside a modulefile are ignored for very
   complicated reasons.  Instead Lmod loads all modules listed in the
   collection.   This works well except when the list of modules is
   different on different nodes.

   The reason why Lmod loads the list of modules in the collections
   and ignores load() type functions in the modulefiles is complex.
   The problem is when two or more modulefiles share the same
   environment variable. Suppose that your site sets the variable 
   **MPI_HOME** (using *setenv()*) in each mpi modulefile.  If Lmod
   obeyed the load() function in each modulefile, then it would have
   to delete the extra modules not in the collection.  In the case
   where the user switched mpi modules, Lmod would load both mpi
   modules then delete one to match the list of names in the
   collection.  Unloading the second module would unset **MPI_HOME**
   and leave this variable with no value. If a site depended on
   **MPI_HOME** as part of mpi program startup script, then those
   users would not be able to submit mpi programs.

How to compare Lmod versions inside a module file?

   Sites can use **convertToCanonical("string")** to test the Lmod version::

      if(convertToCanonical(LmodVersion()) < convertToCanonical("8.6")) then
        LmodMessage("source_sh() is not supported with this version of Lmod")
      end

Why can't Lmod find this module in $MODULEPATH?

   A modulefile written in Lua requires a .lua extension.  A
   modulefile without the .lua extension is assumed to be written in
   TCL. However all TCL modulefiles must start with **#%Module** at
   the at the very top of the file. Otherwise they are silently ignored.

Why should you use Lua variables instead of environment variables to build other variables?

   Building new environment variable based on other environment
   variables defined in the current module (or other modules) will
   cause problems when unloading::

      setenv("ACME_DIR", "/path/to/acme")
      setenv("ACME_BIN", pathJoin(os.getenv("ACME_DIR"),"bin"))

   The above module code works correctly when loading but will fail
   when unloading because "ACME_DIR" is nolonger defined when the
   second setenv statement is evaluated.

   You should instead use Lua variables::
   
      local acme_dir = "/path/to/acme"
      setenv("ACME_DIR", acme_dir)
      setenv("ACME_BIN", pathJoin(acme_dir,"bin"))

   You can use an environment variable to set other environment
   variables.  You just have to be sure that variable is defined when
   the current module is being unloaded.
   
            
