.Dd $Mdocdate: December 6 2020 $
.Dt MODULE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm module
.Nd lmod environment modules manager
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm module
.Op options
.Cm sub-command
.Op args ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Sh OPTIONS
The following
.Ar options
are available:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Fl h , ? , H , -help
Show the help message.
.Pp
.It Fl -check_syntax , -checkSyntax
Only check the
.Nm
command syntax, do not load any modules.
.Pp
.It Fl -config
Report
.Sy Lmod
configuration.
.Pp
.It Fl -config_json
Report
.Sy Lmod
configuration in json format.
.Pp
.It Fl D
Write program tracing data to stderr.
.Pp
.It Fl d , -default
List default modules only when used with
.Cm avail .
.Pp
.It Fl -debug Ar dbglvl
.Sy VALUES :
1, 2, 3.
.Pp
Only write trace output with proper debug levels.
.Pp
.It Fl -dumpversion
Dump version in a machine readable way and quit.
.Pp
.It Fl -expert
Work in expert mode.
.Pp
.It Fl -force
Force removal of a sticky module or save an empty collection.
.Pp
.It Fl -gitversion
Dump git version in a machine readable way and quit.
.Pp
.It Fl -ignore_cache
Treat the cache file(s) as out-of-date.
.Pp
.It Fl -initial_load
Loading Lmod for first time in a user shell.
.Pp
.It Fl -latest
Load latest (ignore default).
.Pp
.It Fl -mt
Report Module Table State.
.Pp
.It Fl -no_redirect
Force output of
.Cm list ,
.Cm avail
and
.Cm spider
to stderr.
.Pp
.It Fl -novice
Turn off
.Fl -expert
and
.Fl -quiet
flags.
.Pp
.It Fl -nx , -no_extensions
.Pp
.It Fl -pin_versions Ar pinVersions
When doing a restore use the specified version, do not follow defaults.
.Pp
.It Fl q , -quiet
Do not print out warnings.
.Pp
.It Fl r , -regexp
Use regular expression match.
.Pp
.It Fl -raw
Print modulefile in raw output when used with show.
.Pp
.It Fl -redirect
Send the output of
.Cm list ,
.Cm avail
and
.Cm spider
to stdout (not stderr).
.Pp
.It Fl -regression_testing
Lmod regression testing.
.Pp
.It Fl -show_hidden
.Cm avail
and
.Cm spider
will report hidden modules.
.Pp
.It Fl -spider_timeout Ar timeout
A timeout for
.Cm spider .
.Pp
.It Fl s , -style Ar availStyle
.Sy DEFAULT :
system
Site controlled avail style.
.Pp
.It Fl T , -trace
.Pp
.It Fl t , -terse
Write out in machine readable format for
.Cm list ,
.Cm avail ,
.Cm spider
and
.Cm savelist .
.Pp
.It Fl -timer
Report run times.
.Pp
.It Fl v , -version
Print version info and quit.
.Pp
.It Fl -w , --width Ar twidth
Use
.Ar twidth
as max term width.
.El
.Sh SUB-COMMANDS
.Ss HELP
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Cm help
Print the help message.
.Pp
.It Cm help Ar module Op moduleX moduleY ...
Print help messages from the given module(s).
.El
.Ss LOAD
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Cm load , add Ar module Op moduleX moduleY ...
Load module(s)
.Pp
.It Cm try-load , try-add Ar module Op moduleX module Y ...
Load module(s), do not complain if not found
.Pp
.It Cm del , unload Ar module Op moduleX moduleY ...
Unload module(s), does not complain if not found
.Pp
.It Cm swap , sw , switch Ar m1 m2
.Cm unload
.Ar m1
and
.Cm load
.Ar m2
.Pp
.It Cm purge
.Cm unload
all modules
.Pp
.It Cm refresh
Reload aliases from current list of modules.
.Pp
.It Cm update
Reload all currently loaded modules.
.El
.Ss SEARCH
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Cm list
List all loaded modules.
.Pp
.It Cm list Ar s1 Op Ar s2 ...
List all loaded modules that match any of the given patterns.
.Pp
.It Cm avail , av Op Ar string
List all available modules.
Restricts to modules containing
.Ar string
if it is provided.
.Pp
.It Cm spider Ar module
List all possible versions of that
.Ar module
file.
.Pp
.It Cm spider Ar string
List all modules that contain
.Ar string .
.Pp
.It Cm spider Ar name/version
Detailed information about that version of the module.
.Pp
.It Cm whatis Ar module
Print whatis information about the module.
.Pp
.It Cm keyword , key Ar string
Search all name and
.Cm whatis
that contain
.Ar string .
.El
.Pp
All searching commands (
.Cm spider ,
.Cm list ,
.Cm avail ,
.Cm keyword
) support regular expressions.
.Pp
For example, to find all modules that start with
.Sq p
or
.Sq P :
.D1 module -r spider '^p'
.Pp
Find all modules that have
.Dq mpi
in their name:
.D1 module -r spider mpi
.Pp
Find all modules that end with
.Dq mpi
in their name:
.D1 module -r spider 'mpi$'
.Ss COLLECTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Cm save , s
Save the current list of modules to a user defined
.Dq default
collection.
.Pp
.It Cm save , s Ar name
Save the current list of modules to the
.Ar name
collection.
.Pp
.It Cm reset
The same as
.Cm restore
.Ar system .
.Pp
.It Cm restore , r
Restore modules from the user's
.Dq default
(if defined) or the system default.
.Pp
.It Cm restore , r Ar name
Restore modules from
.Ar name
collection.
.Pp
.It Cm restore Ar system
Restore module state to system defaults.
.Pp
.It Cm savelist
List of saved collections.
.Pp
.It Cm describe , mcc Ar name
Describe the contents of the
.Ar name
module collection.
.Pp
.It Cm disable Ar name
Disable (i.e. remove) the
.Ar name
collection.
.El
.Ss DEPRECATED
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Cm getdefault Op Ar name
Load the
.Ar name
collection of modules or users
.Dq default
if no
.Ar name
given.
.Pp
Use
.Cm restore
Instead.
.Pp
.It Cm setdefault Op Ar name
Save current list of modules to
.Ar name
if given, otherwise save as the
.Dq default
list for the user.
.Pp
Use
.Cm save
instead.
.El
.Ss MISC
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Cm is-loaded Ar modulefile
Return a true status if
.Ar module
is loaded.
.Pp
.It Cm is-avail Ar modulefile
Return a true status if
.Ar module
can be loaded.
.Pp
.It Cm show Ar modulefile
Show the commands in the
.Ar module
file.
.Pp
.It Cm use [-a] Ar path
Prepend or append
.Ar path
to
.Ev MODULEPATH .
.Pp
.It Cm unuse Ar path
Remove
.Ar path
from
.Ev MODULEPATH .
.Pp
.It Cm tablelist
Output list of active modules as a lua table.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
To print properties and warnings in color, set the
.Ev LMOD_COLORIZE
environment variable to
.Sy YES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Bd -filled -offset indent
.TS
allbox tab(@);
le lw10.
Documentation@http://lmod.readthedocs.org
Github@https://github.com/TACC/Lmod
Sourceforge@https://lmod.sf.net
TACC Homepage@https://www.tacc.utexas.edu/research-development/tacc-projects/lmod
.TE
.Ed
.Pp
To report a bug please read
.Lk http://lmod.readthedocs.io/en/latest/075_bug_reporting.html
.Sh AUTHORS
Modules based on Lua, written by
.An Robert McLay Aq Mt mclay@tacc.utexas.edu
